---
layout: post
title:  "Day 5 of 60: 'Challenging' is Relative"
date:   2017-09-14T23:31:14-05:00
categories: [code challenge, test post, testing]
---

A short post today. After work, I went to the first part of the funeral services for my Vietnamese sister's dad. I'll be a little busy with it Friday and Saturday too.  The "'Challenging' is Relative" title speaks to the fact that no matter how tired I am from today, my sister and her family lost their father or husband. Today was MUCH more challenging for **them** than for me. I know that from experience.

I did a little reading on [Front Matter](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/frontmatter/), which provides metadata for Jekyll posts. I don't FULLY understand how it operates (it's YAML, I know how THAT works), so I'm doing some experiments.

`categories: [code challenge, test post, testing]` in the front matter gets this post put into a `code challenge > test post > testing` directory.

My prior posts have `categories: code challenge` in the front matter. That gets them put into a `code > challenge` directory. I'm wondering what'll happen if I change the front matter in ALL my prior `code challenge` posts to `categories: [code challenge,]`? I'll just try the one from yesterday: `Day 4 of 60: The Challenge and The Plan`.

Ok, that moved it into the `code challenge` directory, which is what I was after.

I'll explain this in more detail another time. Maybe tomorrow? For now I think I'm gonna change the front matter on the other code challenge posts to make them consistent, then head to bed.