---
layout: post
title: "Kodevember Day 19: Back To Work - Two Gems & a Funeral"
date: 2018-11-19T14:38:45-06:00
update: 2018-11-19T22:16:02-06:00
categories: [Kodevember, code challenge]
---

Still no word on when my aunt's funeral will be. Practically speaking, it seems like it won't be until after Thanksgiving. But we did have one year with 2 funerals the week OF Thanksgiving. So, that's been a thing.

After taking a bit of time off, I decided to tackle the security vulnerability messages I'd been getting from [Github](https://help.github.com/articles/about-security-alerts-for-vulnerable-dependencies/) for my blog.

Turns out, I had 2 packages that were out of date: the core `jekyll` gem itself and [`ffi`](https://github.com/ffi/ffi), which I hadn't heard of. It seems to be something Ruby people use.  The instructions for [upgrading jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/upgrading/) worked for `ffi`, but I got a message that said `Bundler attempted to update jekyll but its version stayed the same`. I'd initially tried `bundle update`, which updated `ffi` and a [bunch of other things](https://github.com/kojoidrissa/kojoidrissa.github.io/commit/f301444a6c22d6e74095201ec7367ab1896a34ab). I hadn't updated anything in awhile, so I figured I may as well get everything. But when I got the `...version stayed the same` message, I figured I'd try the more specific `bundle update jekyll` command. Still, no dice.

UPDATE: Funeral is Monday. Flight tickets purchased. Next week will be a busy week.

So, I looked at the `Gemfile` and `Gemfile.lock` and wondered if I needed to change one of those. They reminded me of `requirements.txt` and `Pipfile.lock` in Python (I still use the former, but am familiar with the later). I don't ever do anything in Ruby, so I'm not familiar with their infrastructure. Then I found an issue on Github (which I can't find again) where someone suggested updating the `jekyll` line in the `Gemfile`, then running `bundle update jekyll`. This made sense, as the security warning gave me a message that looked like an updated line IN a `Gemfile`. So, I tried THAT, and [it worked](https://github.com/kojoidrissa/kojoidrissa.github.io/commit/ffe3bfc841d0d0b7df3a8c0f9e75728ff799fb60). Blog infrastructure updated. And I've got a little more insight into HOW to keep it updated. Which is nice.

Later peeps!